---
layout: page
title: Nashville Software School Cohort 6 Demo Day
---
On Tuesday, students of Nashville Software School's 6th cohort demoed their capstone projects to potential employers. Companies with representatives at the event included Emma, Raven, Eventbrite, and LoneyPlanet. As a new NSS student, I found the event to be very informative. Thirteen students in all presented at the demo day. (There were over 20 students in Cohort 6, but the others have already found jobs since graduating in December!) 

On the game front, students Nathan Vasquez, Matt Keef and Michael Barreiro developed interesting 2D video games using phaser.js. Vasquez's game, Gravity, particularly stood out as a desktop/mobile hybrid for its utilization of an iPhone's built-in gyroscope sensor to control the movement of players on the screen. Gravity pits planets against each other in an easy, fun, and addictive way. Vasquez utilized three different javascript frameworks stacked together: Phaser.js, Ionic Mobile Framework, and Socket.io. I ,for one, got a kick out of it.

Many of the projects were built using the MEAN stack, the collection of languages and technologies that Cohort 6 specialized in: Node.js, Angular.js, Express.js, and MongoDB. The projects were impressive for their variety and scope. I was blown away by breadth of the students' knowledge and by the amount of material that they had been exposed to and mastered over the course of the 6-month program at Nashville Software School. To highlight a few projects that stood out to me, Juan Job Rodriguez's project, [Visa Port](http://port.juanjob.info/#/ "Visa Port"), focused on the travel industry. His project was interesting for its use of immigration data to create a travel database that allows users to check visa requirements of the country they are travelling to. It is live on the internet, so check it out! 

On the social media front, Melanie Fryman's project, Brownie Points, stood out for its beautiful user interface. Brownie Points is a social web application that friends can use to award, track, and exchange brownie points. She used the NASH stack (Node.js, Angular.js, SQL, Hapi) to build it. Targeting the music industry, Sarah Pearson, a HackNashville 6 finalist, created a database app for music publishing companies to keep track of all their song information. Angular.js, Node, Postgres, and Hapi were some of the technologies she used. In the healthcare category, student Brian Hiatt chose to focus on workflow management with his web app, [Runner 2.0](https://github.com/bchiatt/runner2 "Runner 2.0"), a physical therapy admission to discharge flow management app. Finally, in education, Zoe Ames's app, [CourseControl](http://coursecontrol.zoeames.com "CourseControl"), was especially impressive for its functionality. CourseControl allows teachers to bring technology into their classrooms by providing a platform where teachers can ask questions and students can vote with their smartphones. She used javascript, PostgreSQL, Hapi, Angular, Node, and Foundation to build it. CourseControl is also live on the web, so make sure to take a test drive. 

 During the event I had the chance to talk to several employers, too. I asked them the same question: What projects stand out to you and what are you looking for in a potential hire? Each employer had a different answer, but I'll summarize their responses here. In short, employers at the Nashville Software School demo day were looking for:

*   Students who show ability to come "full circle" on a project by completing and executing a fully thought out project, both on the front-end and back-end.
*   Students who have spent time ironing out the bugs in their projects over an extended period, rather than cramming and hastily putting together an app in a week or two.
*   Students who display initiative to learn and apply technologies not taught in class.
*   Students who use their projects to solve some kind of problem, rather than just use their projects as platforms to showcase what they learned how to do in class.

That about wraps it up for Nashville Demo Day January 2015\. Thanks to John Wark for putting it together and to everyone who made it happen.
