---
layout: page
title: Dave Delaney Gives Talk At Nashville Software School
---
Networking is the key to any successful career, especially for software developers. But how should one approach networking to achieve their professional goals? In a presentation last week to aspiring software developers at the [Nashville Software School](http://nashvillesoftwareschool.com/ "Nashville Software School"), digital marketing consultant [Dave Delaney](http://daveadelaney.com/new-business-networking-2/ "Dave Delaney's website") gave strategies for connecting with others on a personal level, both in person and online. Delaney, who authored the book [New Business Networking: How to Effectively Grow Your Business Network Using Online and Offline Methods](http://www.amazon.com/New-Business-Networking-Effectively-Biz-Tech/dp/0789750988 "New Business Networking") (Pearson Education, 2013), highlighted several key topics for students to focus on as they build their professional networks, such as identifying your passions, attending networking events, and developing an online reputation.

On identifying passions, Delaney said that before students go to networking events, students should create a list of current and former personal passions and interests. Knowing what your passions and interests are will help you connect with others who share similar interests. It may even help you discover new groups to connect with that you might not have previously thought to interact with, Delaney said.

As examples, Delaney highlighted the stories of famous entrepreneurial friendships/partnerships, including those of Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak, Bill Gates and Paul Allen, and the magicians Siegfried and Roy. Their life stories are examples of individuals who came together to form successful partnerships. The initial spark for those partnerships was a mutual passion, Delaney said. "Passions lead to paths," Delaney said. "What I mean by that is identifying those passions, writing them down, thinking about them, returning to them on a daily or weekly basis, really thinking about this stuff will lead to paths. Follow those passions." Once students have clarified their passions and interests, one of the best ways to build a professional network is by attending events. Students should attend events regularly. Delaney stressed that students should begin developing their professional networks early, long before they are ready to graduate.

"When it comes to networking, you need to build your network before you actually need it," Delaney said. "Because it sucks to come out of school and go, 'Crap, now I need a job.' It's way better to be meeting people while you're in school so you can get a job really quickly afterwards."

When attending networking events, Delaney stressed that job seekers should try to be as down to earth as possible.

"I'm not about cheesy high pressure networking events where you feel like you've been abused or something," Delaney said. "I'm about having a beer and connecting with people, or a breakfast, whatever the case may be. So networking is about connecting with people, connecting people with similar interests who good things can come from."

Although networking is often about finding a job, networking must also be about helping others. Delaney said effective networking "is a two way street" that requires that job seekers to actively use their skills, knowledge and personal network to help others accomplish goals or solve problems. The challenge is to find ways to help other people before asking for anything in return, Delaney said.

"When you think about networking, you need to be thinking about ways to help other people first before you ever ask for anything in return," Delaney said. "It's fine to ask for things, but you're really going to annoy people."

Regarding online networking, Delaney said personable communications and blogging are critically important. On personable online communications, Delaney said that many people have [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/ "Facebook") and [Linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/ "Linkedin") profiles, but forget the importance of making their professional communications as personable as possible. To emphasise the importance of a personable online communication, Delaney used himself as an example. When he worked for [Griffin Technology](http://griffintechnology.com/ "Griffin Technology") in Nashville 3.5 years, Delaney managed all of Griffin's social media accounts. An effective innovation that Delaney implemented during his time at Griffin was to attach a profile picture of himself on every email and piece of marketing material. This simple networking trick made his communications more personable and also improved his recognition at networking events, Delaney said.

"The point is that when I would travel to events and conferences on behalf of Griffin or was just walking around town, I would meet customers and they would recognize me by my face," Delaney said. "It's so important."

On the other key ingredient of online networking, blogging, Delaney said blogging about an industry can help students build professional credibility and impress prospective employers. Again, Delaney used his personal story as an example. Delaney presently lives in Nashville, but he is originally from Toronto, Canada. He moved to Nashville eight years ago with few professional connections. He used blogging as a way to network and learn more about local industries and industry leaders in Nashville.

"When I was getting ready to move to Nashville I started a blog, [New Media Musings](http://www.davemadethat.com/ "New Media Musings") for Nashville," Delaney said. "The point of doing this was I wanted to research broadcasting companies, tech companies, and any company in the area that I was interested in. So, I used New Media as a blog to write about what was going on in Nashville. I was researching the players in Nashville, the companies in Nashville, and was writing about them in this blog."

Delaney continued, "What's great about it is when I would go to job interviews they would look me up and they would find this blog and they would say, 'Wow, he hasn't even officially moved here yet and he is already blogging about the community.' So in part it was my own personal branding exercise, but more importantly it was a way for me to learn about the space here and learn about everybody here."

Delaney stressed that every student at the Nashville Software School should maintain a blog. Possible topics could include class projects, programming languages, and observations about the local tech industry. Sharing this information will help others, as well as yourself, Delaney said.

"When it comes to the blogging, you have an opportunity here blog about the stuff that you are learning and that's a huge opportunity because then you are going to be sharing knowledge," Delaney said. "The projects that you are working on, the experience of being here, anything like that will help other people. If you start a blog about what you are learning, you're providing valuable content. You're also establishing yourself as an expert in that language, or in that area that you're talking about. So I always tell students to write a blog. Start writing about what you are learning. Because you are being fed great information."
